Docs/PR code review (#95)
SuperDARN/pydarn: docs/dev/code_review.md

# Code Reviews 

> Reviewing code is like proof reading a paper, it essential to ensure the followig: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reviewing code is like proof reading a paper, it is essential to ensure the following: 
```

- code is user readable

> - follows consistency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- enforces consistency
```
?? sorry ignore these suggestions if they're a bit picky!

> - helps create collaboration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- helps encourage collaboration
```
?? maybe

> - structure is proper

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- code has a proper structure
```
? I'm not sure what this point means

!!! Note

>     Code review is not meant for debugging or finding bugs

Author: Take a look at my changes and resolve the convo if it looks good.

> Anyone can code review even if you don't program in the native language, which is python for pyDARN. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anyone can code review even if you don't program in the native language, which for pyDARN is python. 
```

> Doing code reviews can also be good learning experiences to better understand the software and how to program. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code reviewing is also an excellent learning experience which helps you better understand the software and how to program in general. 
```

Code reviews should not take more than an hour and Pull Requests should be less than 400 lines.

> However, this is challenging for new features and major changes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, these restrictions can be challenging for new features and major changes. 
```

> If this is the case, then code review parts or specific files to reduce your time spent. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this is the case, then you can code review parts of a file or specific files to reduce your time spent. 
```

Reviewer: Could add a 'Every little helps!' on the end?
```suggestion
If this is the case, then you can code review parts of a file or specific files to reduce your time spent. Every little helps!
```
Two suggestions so its easier than you having to open the file and change :P

## How to start a Code Review 

1. Pick a Pull Request to code review, which can be found [here](https://github.com/SuperDARN/pydarn/pulls)

> 2. Click on `files chaned` at the top of the PR conversation below the title on the right side 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click on `files changed` at the top of the PR conversation below the title on the right side 
```

> 3. Now review the changes that occurred in this PR - avoid commenting on other lines as this is scope creep.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Now review the changes that occurred in this PR - avoid commenting on other lines not included in the changes as this is `scope creep`.
```

4. If you want to make a comment hover the cursor over the line numbers on the left side and a **+** button will appear. Click it!

> 5. Now right any feedback or questions in the box and hit `Start a review` on the bottom right in the pop up window. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Now write any feedback or questions in the box and hit `Start a review` on the bottom right in the pop up window. 
```

    
    !!! Warning
        Do not make several single comments as this can cause a lot of email notifications

> 6. If you want to change a line in the code use [suggestion](https://haacked.com/archive/2019/06/03/suggested-changes/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. If you want to change a line in the code use a [suggestion](https://haacked.com/archive/2019/06/03/suggested-changes/)
```

> 7. If you wish comment on several consecutive lines hold **+** down and drag the cursor down to select multiple lines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. If you wish to comment on several consecutive lines hold **+** down and drag the cursor down to select multiple lines
```

> 8. Once you are done, click on `Finish your changes` or `Review channges` (if no comments made) then comment on any general feedback in the text box

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Once you are done, click on `Finish your changes` or `Review changes` (if no comments made) then comment on any general feedback in the text box
```

> 8. Once you are done, click on `Finish your changes` or `Review changes` (if no comments made) then comment on any general feedback in the text box

Reviewer 2: Here is where I would suggest potentially including what type of review was done, a Formatting Review and/or a Testing Review.

9. Select:  
  - Comment: general comments to be fixed up but nothing major
  - Approve: everything looks good no changes needed
  - Request Changes: major changes to make

>       

Reviewer 2: I am guessing that if only a partial review is completed for the submitted changes, comment should be selected.  If a future review is submitted that advances the previous review, should this be mentioned in the later review?  Is it possible to refer to a previous review/comment?

>     !!! Warning
>         Request changes, present anyone from merging the code. Generally you will need to approve the changes that were addressed. 
>         Generally if you cannot do this then do not use Request changes.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    !!! Warning
        Request changes, prevents anyone from merging the code. Generally you will need to approve the changes that were addressed. 
        Generally if you cannot do this then do not use Request changes.

```

10. Submit! 

!!! Note
    If you want to make minor changes directly in the code like typos and grammar changes you can pull the code down described in [testing](testing.md)

>     and change the code as you want and then re-push the code back to the code. The Developer can review the changes in your commit. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    and change the code as you want and then re-push the code back to the branch. The Developer can review the changes in your commit. 
```
I'm not sure what this note is trying to say, is it saying how to make changes if you have to go into the files again?

Author: @Devin-Huyghebaert suggested it like you could have checked out this branch and made changes within the file?

Reviewer: Ah okay, so code is good!

### What to look for?

Here is a list of what to look for 

- Does it follow [PEP8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) style?
- Is the copyright and license disclaimer in the file?
- Did they add the modification line if they made updates?

> - Are there doc strings for the class and or functions?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Are there doc strings for the class and/or functions?
```

```suggestion
- Are there doc strings for the class and for functions?
```

> - Are there confusing variable, function, and/or class names? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Are there confusing variables, functions, and/or class names? 
```

- Are there defaults and do they make sense for the function? 
- Is the code too complex? Could it be simpler? 
- Do the error messages/exceptions make sense and are helpful?
- Could there be more comments on certain sections?
- Are hard coded values documented? 
- Are algorithms or mathematical equations cited to publication, webpage, or book? 

> - Nomenclature make sense? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Does the nomenclature make sense? 
```

> - Are there any cases they may need to consider? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Are there any cases they may need to reconsider? 
```
I think? I'm not sure what this is supposed to say.

- Would comments or documentation make sense to the general user?

## How to speed up code reviews

Here are some tips and tricks:

- Dedicated a certain amount of time and just review what you can in that time period 
- Scan missing doc string and obvious mistakes 
- Focus on what has been changed 
- If the issue repeats then make a comment for them to fix the rest and add in the general feedback when submitting the comments 

> - Do not get too pedantic!

Reviewer: Good luck with this one :P

Author: Yea....

Author: Wishful  thinking

- Break up the reviews if you can only review a few files or functions then do it and mention it. 

## Reviewing a review 
  

> As a developer you will need to address any comments that come up from code reviews like you would with reviewers comments in paper submission. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a developer you will need to address any comments that come up from code reviews like you would with reviewers comments in a paper submission. 
```

Comments should addressed and resolved before merging the code. 

If you do step 2 and look at the comments in `files changed` view you can address multiple comments in one batch. 

### Batch Committing of Suggestions 

First look for all the suggestion comments and if you agree then add to `batch ssugestions`, once you have gone through all them 
then at the top in the middle there is `commit suggestions` and this commit all the suggestions for you. 

### Responding to Comments 

If you don't agree with a suggestion try to find a compromise or acknowledge their effort and explain why you prefer your style.
Remember to hit `Start a review` to prevent multiple email notifications. 

If you made the change requested, then select `resolve conflict` so they know you addressed their comment.

> If you are answer question or responding to some feedback remember to acknowledge their time, then address it in collaborative manner. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are answering a question or responding to some feedback, remember to acknowledge their time and effort, then address it in collaborative manner. 
```

Remember to hit `Start a review` to prevent multiple email notifications. 

Once all comments are addressed then follow steps 9-10 in the above steps. 

## General Guidelines

Here are some general guidelines to follow when code reviewing or responding to one: 

- Dedicate time to review of a given period, avoid being distracted 
- Ask questions instead of stating 
- Remember to comment on the code 
- Acknowledge time spent and saying "Thank you" 
- Suggest solutions or help
- Avoid aggressive terminology 
- Avoid reviewing in a bad mood or feeling pressured/rush 
- Review all comments to make sure it sounds helpful and not demeaning 
- Avoid pedantic points, focus on what is needed and not personal preferences 

> - Any amount of reviewing small or large is welcoming! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Any amount of reviewing small or large is welcome! 
```

> - Approve! If things look good approve the PR! Approvals take us one step closer to being able to merge the code!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Approve! If things look good approve the PR! Approvals take us one step closer to being able to merge the code!  Be sure to include in the approval comment what was tested and is being approved.
```

!!! Note
    If you approve the PR and you are the second to approve, or there are already 2 approvals and all concerns are addressed 

>     please merge the PR! Unless it is a release PR or a PR specifically looking for more than two approvals. 

Reviewer 2: As mentioned previously, perhaps a clarification on the different types of reviews should be discussed.  Two approvals of the format/syntax of the code, with 0 approvals on the testing of the code is not ideal.

Author: Take a look at my changes and resolve the convo if it looks good.

5. Now write any feedback or questions in the box and hit `Start a review` on the bottom right in the pop up window. 
    
    !!! Warning
        Do not make several single comments as this can cause a lot of email notifications

6. If you want to change a line in the code use a [suggestion](https://haacked.com/archive/2019/06/03/suggested-changes/)
7. If you wish to comment on several consecutive lines hold **+** down and drag the cursor down to select multiple lines
8. Once you are done, click on `Finish your changes` or `Review changes` (if no comments made) then comment on any general feedback in the text box. This should include what type of review you did and if you will be continuing your review at a later time/date.  Some examples include:
  - Testing and code review to find a bug 
  - Code review on style/formatting 
  - Partial code review 
9. Select:  
  - Comment: general comments to be fixed up but nothing major
    
    !!! Note
        If you did a partial review please select comment. Approve is only done for complete reviews or complete testing 

  - Approve: everything looks good no changes needed
    
    !!! Note

>         This should only be done on complete code reviews. You can also, revert your approval after it is made if you find something else later. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        This should only be done on complete code reviews. You can also revert your approval after it is made if you find something else later. 
```

        Do this by going down to the merge button and find your name under approvals and click the three dots and select `re-review` 
  
  - Request Changes: major changes to make
      
    !!! Warning
        Request changes, prevents anyone from merging the code. Generally you will need to approve the changes that were addressed. 

>         Generally if you cannot do this then do not use Request changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        If you cannot do this then do not use Request changes.
```

    and change the code as you want and then re-push the code back to the code. The Developer can review the changes in your commit. 

### What to look for?

Here is a list of what to look for 

- Does it follow [PEP8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) style?
- Is the copyright and license disclaimer in the file?
- Did they add the modification line if they made updates?
- Are there doc strings for the class and for functions?
- Are there confusing variables, functions, and/or class names? 
- Are there defaults and do they make sense for the function? 
- Is the code too complex? Could it be simpler? 
- Do the error messages/exceptions make sense and are helpful?
- Could there be more comments on certain sections?
- Are hard coded values documented? 
- Are algorithms or mathematical equations cited to publication, webpage, or book? 
- Does the nomenclature make sense? 
- Are there any cases they may need to reconsider? 
- Would comments or documentation make sense to the general user?

## How to speed up code reviews

Here are some tips and tricks:

> - Dedicated a certain amount of time and just review what you can in that time period 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Dedicate a certain amount of time and just review what you can in that time period 
```

Remember to hit `Start a review` to prevent multiple email notifications. 

Once all comments are addressed then follow steps 9-10 in the `How to start a Code Review` section. 

## General Guidelines

Here are some general guidelines to follow when code reviewing or responding to one: 

- Dedicate time to review in a given period, avoid being distracted 
- Ask questions instead of stating 
- Remember to comment on the code 
- Acknowledge time spent and say "Thank you" 
- Suggest solutions or help
- Avoid aggressive terminology 
- Avoid reviewing in a bad mood or feeling pressured/rush 
- Review all comments to make sure it sounds helpful and not demeaning 
- Avoid pedantic points, focus on what is needed and not personal preferences 
- Any amount of reviewing small or large is welcome! 
- Approve! Make sure to comment what type of approval you are giving, complete testing or a complete reviewing of the code. This will help others know what needs to be done to get the PR closer to `merge` 

!!! Note
    If you approve the PR and you are the second to approve, or there are already 2 approvals and all concerns are addressed 

>     with one approval on testing and one approval on code review, please merge the PR! An exception to this is if  it is a release PR or if more than two approvals are requested in the PR instructions. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    with one approval on testing and one approval on code review, please merge the PR! An exception to this is if it is a release PR or if more than two approvals are requested in the PR instructions. 
```

# Code Reviews 

Reviewing code is like proof reading a paper, it is essential to ensure the following: 

- code is user readable
- enforces consistency
- helps encourage collaboration
- code has a proper structure

> - Reviewing/Verifying algorithms 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The algorithms and software are tested and verified 
```

1. Pick a Pull Request to code review, which can be found [here](https://github.com/SuperDARN/pydarn/pulls)
2. Click on `files changed` at the top of the PR conversation below the title on the right side 
    
    !!! Note 
        Before starting a code review always check for others comments, if something you have stated is already stated 
        then you can leave it alone or give a "thumbs up :+1" to the comment to show support. 

3. Now review the changes that occurred in this PR - avoid commenting on other lines not included in the changes as this is `scope creep`.
4. If you want to make a comment hover the cursor over the line numbers on the left side and a **+** button will appear. Click it!
5. Now write any feedback or questions in the box and hit `Start a review` on the bottom right in the pop up window. 
    
    !!! Warning
        Do not make several single comments as this can cause a lot of email notifications

6. If you want to change a line in the code use a [suggestion](https://haacked.com/archive/2019/06/03/suggested-changes/)
7. If you wish to comment on several consecutive lines hold **+** down and drag the cursor down to select multiple lines

> 8. Once you are done, click on `Finish your changes` or `Review changes` (if no comments made) then comment on any general feedback in the text box. This should include what type of review you did:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Once you are done, click on `Finish your changes` or `Review changes` (if no comments made) then comment on any general feedback in the text box. This should include what type of review you did and if you will be continuing your review at a later time/date.  Some examples include:
```

>   - Testing and a bit of code review to find the bug 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Testing and code review to find a bug 
```

  - Code review on style/formatting 
  - Partial code review 

>   - Report if you will be able to continue reviewing or want to test the code as well. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Remember to hit `Start a review` to prevent multiple email notifications. 

Once all comments are addressed then follow steps 9-10 in the `How to start a Code Review` section. 

## General Guidelines

Here are some general guidelines to follow when code reviewing or responding to one: 

- Dedicate time to review in a given period, avoid being distracted 
- Ask questions instead of stating 
- Remember to comment on the code 
- Acknowledge time spent and say "Thank you" 
- Suggest solutions or help
- Avoid aggressive terminology 
- Avoid reviewing in a bad mood or feeling pressured/rush 
- Review all comments to make sure it sounds helpful and not demeaning 
- Avoid pedantic points, focus on what is needed and not personal preferences 
- Any amount of reviewing small or large is welcome! 
- Approve! Make sure to comment what type of approval you are giving, complete testing or a complete reviewing of the code. This will help others know what needs to be done to get the PR closer to `merge` 

!!! Note
    If you approve the PR and you are the second to approve, or there are already 2 approvals and all concerns are addressed 

>     and one approval is testing and one is code review, please merge the PR! Unless it is a release PR or a PR specifically looking for more than two approvals. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    with one approval on testing and one approval on code review, please merge the PR! An exception to this is if  it is a release PR or if more than two approvals are requested in the PR instructions. 
```
